               Minc - Medical Image NetCDF

INTRODUCTION
------------
The Minc file format is a highly flexible medical image file format
built on top of the NetCDF generalized data format. The format is
simple, self-describing, extensible, portable and N-dimensional, with
programming interfaces for both low-level data access and high-level
volume manipulation. On top of the libraries is a suite of generic
image-file manipulation tools. The format, libraries and tools are
designed for use in a medical-imaging research environment : they are
simple and powerful and make no attempt to provide a pretty interface
to users.

Here's a list of some of the tools:

 * rawtominc, minctoraw, mincextract - format conversion
 * mincheader, mincedit, mincdiff, minc_modify_header, mincinfo -
      header manipulation
 * mincresample - arbitrary volume resampling
 * mincreshape - extraction of volume sub-cubes, image flipping,
      dimension re-ordering, type conversion
 * mincconcat - concatenating or interleaving images from multiple
      files
 * mincmath - perform simple math on files
 * mincaverage - average minc files
 * minclookup - lookup table operations for arbitrary re-mappings of
      intensities
 * worldtovoxel, voxeltoworld - coordinate conversion
 * xfmconcat, xfminvert - generalized transformation utilities
 * mincview - simple image display using xv or ImageMagick

Additional tools are available from the Montreal Neurological
Institute (MNI). These include register, a program designed for
manual, landmark-based volume registration using a tri-plane interface
that allows the user to roam simultaneously through two data volumes
plus the combined volume that overlays the data of the other two. Emma
is a minc interface to matlab (from The MathWorks) with functions to
facilitate image processing and display.

GETTING MINC
------------
The minc package is available through anonymous ftp from
ftp.mni.mcgill.ca in directory pub/minc.

Minc requires that the NetCDF package be built and installed first. It
is available through anonymous ftp from the Unidata Program centre at
the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (unidata.ucar.edu). 
You should also be able to get it from the same site that provided
this package. Automatic registration software may also be available on
request. 

For building and installation instructions, refer to the general
autoconf INSTALL file provided in this directory. Please note a few
changes and additions: 

   1. The default installation directory is the one above this one
      (ie. ../bin, ../lib, ../include, ../man), not /usr/local. This
      should correspond to the default for the netcdf package, so if
      they are built side-by-side, they should install in the same
      place.

   2. Only a few of the many configure options are used: prefix,
      exec_prefix, and CC, to name a few. Additionally, you can set
      NETCDF_PREFIX to tell it where to look for the netcdf stuff (if
      it is not in .. or /usr/local).

   3. The host type information is only needed for compiling the
      fortran interface. This is only done if f77 exists on your system
      and the OS type is irix. You can force the fortran compilation by
      setting BUILD_FORTRAN to "yes" before running configure. The fortran 
      interface has only been tested under irix 4 and 5.

   4. The package has not been set up for cross-compiling.

